Web services support reusability of code.
Because they are meant to be small components,
they can be used by multiple systems.
Web services makes sense when you need to reuse the same data in several applications.
Let's say you're having your morning coffee and you
want to review the most recent posts in your LinkedIn feed.
Well, you can access that feed from the client app you downloaded on your phone.
You can also open your computer and access your feed from
LinkedIn's web application that runs inside of a web browser.
Behind the scenes, there's probably a web service that serves
up the same data no matter from where you're trying to access that data,
from your phone or from your computer.
Web services also promote usability as they are an easy way to expose business logic
and data to other systems in a secure fashion to a wide range of audiences and platforms.
These concepts of reusability and usability
allow organizations to use web services provided by third parties.
This reduces development time and delivers more powerful applications.
For example, let's say your system is the source of truth for airport locations.
Well, you can expose that data via a web service and now every client or
system on the planet that needs a list of airport locations can call your service.
There is no need for each client to create
their own version of an airport listing service.